now Hamas has released a statement
holding Israel and the Biden
Administration responsible for the
resumption of hostilities the group says
it offered to hand over the bodies of an
Israeli family and released the father
to allow him to hold their funerals as
well as hand over two other Israeli
detainees Hamas says Israel refused to
continue with the ceasefire agreement
because it had already made the decision
to resume fighting now earlier hamas's
spokesman Osama hamon spoke to Al jazer
about the end of the ceas
it's the time now to make it and say it
clearly the cause of the problem is the
occupation the real solution is not to
find temporary poses the real solution
is to find mechanisms and ways to put an
end to the
occupation we uh have exerted efforts we
will exert efforts even with the renewal
of the aggression against our people we
will do our best to face the aggression
everyone is considering our efforts as
resistants who are facing the aggression
we have spent some good time to have
conversation with all the
mediators and we need to thank the
efforts of Kat and Egypt in order to
reach a formula to put an end to the
aggression but but the aggression has
stopped everything and the Zionist
regime is rejecting everything
because uh he doesn't want but as a
resistance we will face the Israeli
Zionist regime we will defend our people
we will be open for any efforts that
aims at putting an end to the aggression
within the B benefits and the interests
of our people let's bring in now Al
jazer Sarah hyat who's in Tel Aviv for
us so Sarah there was always of course
the risk that this would happen the
resumption of this war because prime
minister Netanyahu had been adamant that
the war would continue what are they
saying about the resumption of this new
phase of the
conflict yeah there's so much to unpack
here Folly but one thing that all of uh
uh the Israeli uh uh government the war
cabinet the Prime Minister anyone making
these decisions they all agree on one
thing that this had to be resumed and
they'd been warning about this for a
while actually saying that uh if Hamas
hadn't provided for example the list
that they had expected if there was any
violations uh they would immediately uh
resume uh the war and and in the words
of some of those uh for example the
defense minister that it would be
ferocious um now they've blamed Hamas
wholeheartedly on this uh for various
reasons they said that they' violated uh
the ceasefire by firing Rockets we know
that these Rockets have been targeting
uh the southern towns all morning uh and
then also in a statement from the prime
minister's office uh he said that it had
not met its obligation to release all of
the with women hostages today and has
launched rocket attacks that I just
mentioned earlier we have got official
figures that have also been released by
the Israel
person who's in charge of keeping tabs
on the captives it seems that 20 of
those remaining are women in terms of
the response from Hamas well they've
said and they've told Al jazer that they
provided it seems three lists or three
options of names including uh the bodies
of uh bibas the family which is a mother
and her two children a four-year-old and
a 10-month yearold and he was the
youngest hostage they're saying that
they were provid providing those on that
list that they were happy to hand them
over and also that they had offered to
hand over their father so that he could
be there and attend uh their burial this
has never been verified by the Israelis
they've maintained until last night when
Daniel hagari the spokesman of the
Israeli military had maintained uh that
um it was unverified information whether
they'd been killed in the first place
and said that Hamas was using this as a
propaganda uh Tool uh this seems to have
been the sticking point that was dis us
yesterday in Israeli media that they
didn't want to have any bodies on that
list of the 10 captives that would be uh
release and it seems this has been one
of the major sticking points so the main
sticking point uh from the Israeli
perspective is the the hand over of the
bodies as you say of the bias family the
the the mother and the child who were
killed and the father was still alive on
the list of prisoners how is that going
to play out and how is the resumption of
the war Sarah playing out with the the
families of the
captives for the families of the
captives I mean we've been here now for
the whole duration of this ceasefire and
one thing they keep saying uh to us and
one thing we keep seeing in terms of the
rallies is that they want to ensure that
all of the captives are brought back
home when you're seeing videos of uh
unifications between those that had been
taken on October 7 being unified with
their parents with their loved ones and
those videos are being shared although
there haven't actually been interviews
with the ones that were held captive but
their families are speaking and that's
their priority they want to ensure all
of them are returned it has come as a
major shock I will say for the Israelis
especially when it comes to the Bas
family according to Hamas being killed
by air strikes that was that this family
theas family has been if you like the
face of the campaign to bring them back
so to hear such news from a couple of
days ago and it being unverified until
now that is a major major cause of
concern for the families because they
don't want those that are remaining
which is now standing at more than 130
people to also uh be targeted or hit in
these air strikes that are happening at
the moment as we speak and that is one
of the biggest concerns for them they
want their families home they want them
here and they want them safe Sarah thank
you for the update Sarah H rat live for
us there in Tel Aviv